All right.
So we have one more property to learn not in total just one more right now until we build our next little
project a responsive nav bar.
So this property is called a line content.
My personal opinion and I kind of find it confusing compared to a line item is really just the naming.
I think I would have named it something else the way that it works conceptually is actually not that
difficult to grasp.
It's just that sometimes I mix up which when I which align content or line items anyway.
What it does is it allows us to define how space is distributed.
Just like just by content on line items.
But it is how space is distributed between rows along the cross axes.
So if we don't have multiple rows if things aren't wrapping to multiple rows then we won't have any
space between them to control.
So nothing happens but if we do have different rows.
Here's an example.
So we set a line items to stretch remember across axis by default top to bottom.
And this case we have three rows and there's no space between them right now because a line item is
set to stretch.
Hello everyone.
This is Colts from the future.
This is a bit of a patch or a temporary fix for this video.
There is a problem that Andrew one of the current students pointed out.
I don't know your last name Andrew but thank you.
In the slides here where it says a line items it's supposed to say align content.
I just a couple of seconds ago mentioned that they're easy to confuse and then I confused them myself
in the slides.
So the slides are updated.
If you actually look at the slides separate from the video and I'm working on a new video to upload
but this is just the temporary fix I'm away from home away from my microphone and my setup.
Sorry it sounds so bad and I'm away from the initial file.
I can't edit the actual files so I'm just adding some content on top of it to try and make it clear
where the problem is.
So when it says it line items in the code here it's actually a line in content.
I should have it fixed.
Thanks OK.
Back to good sounding calls.
But I could change it to flex starred in that space between them is shoved to the bottom.
They all move up to the start of the cross axes or flex and does the opposite pushes everything down.
Space between divides that space between the rows and space around divides it between as well as around
and finally center so vertically center.
In this case of vertical or if we had columns that were working with the same thing but horizontally
centered.
So let's play around.
First thing we need to do is actually get some rows.
Let's give these things away so that they take up more space and we'll be forced to wrap.
So let's say with about 300 pixels like this a big bigger as well.
OK.
Now we need them to wrap because those aren't actually 300 pixels.
They're just being compressed.
So on our container let's say flex rap is rap.
You have permission to rap.
The other thing I'd say is let's change height to be 100.
VH viewport height and I am zoomed in.
There we go.
Hopefully this is easy enough for you to see.
OK.
So what's happening right now by default if you look as I resized this notice the white space that you
might expect is actually just turning into content.
It's being stretched out and that's because by default a line content is stretch.
So if I did a line content stretch nothing changes.
So I could do flex start and save.
And now things go back to normal what you would expect possibly are white spaces down at the bottom
are cross axes.
It goes from top to bottom.
They are aligned to the top of it.
The opposite flex and they move down to the bottom.
Whitespace comes up top.
Or how about space between.
Pretty common commonly used one.
Now that space is between the two rows they're pushed to the top and bottom and we have space around
very similar and then we have center and center pushes those roast the middle as well.
So this is different than a line items and a line and justify content.
They all work in a similar way in that they deal with distributing space.
But you know just by content is distributing space on the main axis line items it's distributing space
on the cross axis and the line content is distributing space between rows on the Cross access.
So a lot of terminology.
So that's it for the new stuff in this video.
But if you want to stick around like I've been doing the past couple of videos I'll just show mixing
and matching some of the other properties.
So the next one I'll do if we add in let's do a justified content let's say just the right content Center.
What's going to happen.
What do you think.
Very slight change.
This right here this row has no white space and it takes up the entire thing but this one did have one
space.
And so what it did is it took that white space and it distributed it on either side and it centered
our content.
As you can see.
OK.
So how about a big change.
Let's go to flex direction and make it a column.
And why don't we get even fantods to columnar verse.
It's been a while.
I've reached on that.
So here we go we've got one two three four five six seven eight nine starting from the bottom to the
top is our main axis and our cross axis goes from left to right.
All right.
So we have a line content flex start.
Let's try the center.
Looks kind of cool.
So what's happening is that it's aligning these taking the space between the rows and shoving it to
the sides lining them on that cross axis from left to right.
So if I wanted to move all of them keep them a chunk like this.
These are many nine items in this shape and I want to move them to the bottom so that they're resting
on this.
How would I do that.
What's the property.
OK.
Well remember this is our main axis in this case.
It goes from top I keep doing that goes from bottom to top.
So this is the start of the main axis.
So we want to do justify content flaks start and you can see actually without that it does that because
the default is flex start.
OK.
And we could also change on content.
Let's try to do space between.
OK so now we have evenly spaced across the corrupt axis.
Quite the tongue twister.
And I'll leave it at that for now.
But it's good to play around with this.
Make sure you understand how things work.
Make sure you can predict what will happen before you type the code.
All right.
So that wraps up these properties wraps up or wraps up these properties that we need to know to make
our next little tool Widget A nice nav bar that's also responsive.
OK.
Coming up.